the British prime minister Rishi sunak
has told his Israeli counterpart
Benjamin Netanyahu that the UK will
stand by the country what both men
described as its Darkest Hour during
talks in Jerusalem the Prime Minister
said Israel had the right to defend
itself after attacks by Hamas killed
nearly 1,400 Israelis the meeting came
amid continuing concerns about the
plight of people in Gaza RI sunak said
gazans were victims of Hamas as well and
welcome plans to get Aid into the ter
from Egypt Aid agencies are warning that
Gaza is in need of far more Aid than the
initial 20 lorries announced by
President Biden during his visit to
Israel yesterday the UN humanitarian
Chief Martin Griffith says about 100
lorries a day will be required more than
60 International Charities including
Christian Aid Oxfam and save the
children have called for an urgent
ceasefire Israeli air strikes are
continuing in Gaza the latest reports
from Gaza say that several people
including children have been killed or
wounded in an air strike on a house in
the southern town of KH Unis these are
some of the pictures from the hospital
nearby with what appears to be un
workers among the injured well
Palestinian Health officials said the
death toll had risen to more than
3,800 Palestinians in total diplomatic
meetings to try to secure aid for
Palestinians are continuing with the
King of Jordan meeting Egypt's President
in Cairo both countries have played
significant mediation roles in previous
conflicts well coming up this hour we'll
hear from a UN Agency on the ground
we'll also hear from a British man who's
lost family members in Gaza and from the
families desperately trying to trace
loved ones seized by Hamas first though
we start with this report from WEA
Davis what on the heels of yesterday's
visit by Joe Biden a UK military flight
today brought rashis sunak to Tel Aviv
the Prime Minister here to meet Israeli
leaders and British Israeli victims of
the brutal violence of 12 days
ago on the well traveled road to
Jerusalem Mr sunak trip is a symbolic
show of solidarity after one of the
worst events in modern Israeli history
rak's visit here and that of world
leaders before and afterwards is to show
Israel that its allies have its back
there may well be some calls for
restraint but what happens next is
perhaps inevitable and they won't try to
persuade Israel otherwise Israel's
military buildup on the border with Gaza
continues when they go in is perhaps yet
to be decided but with the avowed
intention of completely destroying Hamas
those who've seen this before say this
time will be different the two previous
uh ground campaigns in 2014 and 2009
both lasted for about 18 days and then
the Israeli forces which were there on
the ground left this this time it's
going to be a heck of a lot longer than
18 days and nobody is going to say
whether it's say weeks months perhaps
even years until Israel has reached that
uh objective eradicating Hamas
leadership and Military capabilities in
Gaza so that is really the main
difference now for now Israel continues
to hit targets inside Gaza from the air
confirming it had hit hundreds of Hamas
infrastructure sites
but say Palestinian officials there have
also been numerous civilian casualties
many of them
children gaza's humanitarian situation
is dire and like President Biden before
him Rashi sunak impressed on Israeli
leaders the importance of allowing
limited Aid into Gaza through the border
with Egypt something Israel has agreed
to and which should begin by the end of
the
week compared to its Reliance on the
United States for support and military
aid Israel's relationship with the UK is
much less important but at times of such
crisis these moments are significant I'm
proud to stand here with you in Israel's
Darkest Hour as your friend we will
stand with you in solidarity we will
stand with your people and we also want
you to win this is not merely our battle
it's the battle of the entire civilized
world it's the Battle of uh Israel it's
the battle of the moderate Arab
countries it's the Battle of uh Western
Civilization the battle of the Free
World the battle for the future Israel
says it cannot allow its friends or The
Wider world to forget what happened on
October the 7th when 1300 people were
murdered and on the day of Rishi Sak's
visit British Israeli yonni Rapaport was
the latest victim to be identified
murdered in the attack on kibot ber the
lifetime man united fan leaves behind
two young children G Davis BBC News jus
Jerusalem we talk to our correspondent
Tom bitman these are the pictures live
from Gaza another huge plume of smoke
there on the skyline so let's bring in
Tom bitman has been across all of
today's developments Tom your assessment
of that visit from Rishi sunak the day
after the American
president well it was meant to show a
very strong uh signal of solidarity by
Mr tunak and the British government for
for the Israeli leader uh at this
particular moment but I thought what was
interesting was that whereas we were
hearing uh towards the end of last week
uh really only that message from the UK
government um I think what we've seen
which was triggered largely by a tour by
the US Secor State Anthony blinkin of
around eight Arab capitals this rapid
shuttle diplomacy at the end of last
week in which he kept adding new venues
and dates and then coming back to Israel
that's where we saw some of the
messaging from the Western Powers start
to shift a bit and we've heard much more
Focus about the need to get humanitarian
Aid into Gaza and a bit more of an
emphasis too which we heard from Rishi
sunak about the need for Israel to
operate within the boundaries of
international law um because clearly
what they are worried about here is the
way that this has the potential to
escalate and spread to The Wider region
and remember that many many millions of
people across the rest of this region
have been seeing those pictures coming
from Gaza with this huge civilian um
death toll and that is creating uh it's
making the temperature rise and so I
think you know what we were hearing from
Mr Biden yesterday and Mr sunak a bit
today uh was the need to sort of show
that they are urging some sort of
restraint to the Israelis remember we
haven't even had of course that ground
Invasion begin yet it's still expected
and I think one of the the really one of
the only practical ways they can try and
do that at the moment is is to try and
alleviate some of the desperation in
Gaza by getting that Rafa Crossing open
with Egypt so that uh messaging that you
know the deal that was done between Mr
Biden and the Israelis yesterday that
they'll try to open get Rafa opened
tomorrow which will allow in 20 Aid
trucks of uh food water and Medicine not
fuel though and that is really um
crucial and although having said all of
that what we're hearing now from Aid
groups and the UN is that really not
that is just it will help but it's not
going to be anywhere near Enough Tom a
twin thought uh just a supplementary on
where You' finished what have Israel
said about where that Aid may go are
there any limitations and in terms of
the military buildup where are
we in terms of where the aid goes I mean
the Israelis have said that there should
be a designated uh Aid point a supply
point for the uh Aid which is on the
coastal side of the Gaza Strip but we we
really don't know much about the
logistics at the moment I mean all we've
heard we heard from uh an Egyptian
official saying that they are working at
the moment to repair the roads after the
damage from the Israeli bombing um close
to the crossing the the part of the road
that runs between the Egyptian side of
the Border onto the sort of liaison
Point Rafa with the um Palestinian side
so they're working on that um but beyond
that what exactly will happen to the
AIDS we simply don't know I mean one of
the things the Israelis had been saying
is uh that and one of the reasons they
don't want fuel is they have said that
if there's any sense that supplies are
being exploited or stolen by Hamas
they'll they'll stop it um so these are
really going to be really sensitive
discussions between all of the parties
involved as to the buildup to war we're
not really any further in terms of what
we know than we were I think at the
beginning of this week quite honestly I
mean the you know the buildup around on
the perimeter of the Gaza Strip of
Israeli forces has been absolutely huge
the biggest cool up of military
reservists in half a century of 360,000
people it is all a massive operation it
feels to me that while we've had this
week which has almost felt like a slight
pause while um International diplomacy
is ramped up you know President Biden
yesterday we had Olaf Schultz uh the
German Chancellor there may be more
European leaders coming um this week it
feels like it would be unlike that a
grand Invasion would be launched during
that but of course we simply don't know
these are unprecedented and extremely
volatile um times uh but you know
clearly they have been and they've been
saying since the weekend the Israelis
militarily they're ready to
go Tom bitman there in Jerusalem thanks
very much